[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>SONIA BARRETT:
Life is a science,
and I think it
wants to be hacked.
Maybe we are all living under
a birth to death program
that's simply just that--
a birth to death program.
The body waits for instructions
from a more evolved
consciousness.
It's all data.
We are just streams of data.
We have to become outrageous.
Like a tree, that's how
creation branches out.
It branches, because we branch.
I think that we got locked
into this limited version
of ourselves in order to
experience the most limiting
possibilities, and I think
we've-- it's clear that
we've done that.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Sonia Barrett with us,
the executive producer
of an award-winning documentary,
"The Business of Disease."
She's also the author
of "The Holographic
Canvas" and several other books,
as well as the host of a radio
show called "The Expansion
Zone" that you can hear on 90.7
FM in Los Angeles.
Sonia, welcome.
>>BARRETT: Well, thank
you so much for having me.
It's good to be back.
>>NOORY: And how are you?
>>BARRETT: I'm great.
I'm great.
>>NOORY: What's new?
>>BARRETT: Well,
everything is new.
Everything is new, and nothing
is new so, lots going on.
Getting through our new
version of the world today,
so I think that's
what's going on
for me right now-- just
happy to seem like we're
being on the other side
to some degree as opposed
to what we witnessed
maybe last year.
>>NOORY: I don't think
human beings have ever
gone through what we've gone
through over the last year
and a half.
It's been truly
remarkable, yet we
seem to be getting through it.
>>BARRETT: Yes, and I think that
the idea that maybe we've never
gone through this before, I
think that human beings have
gone through a tremendous
amount of change
for the course of humanity's
existence on the planet.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>BARRETT: We've gone through
a lot of different changes.
But the beauty with human
beings, to some degree,
is the fact that we adapt.
Somehow, we manage to adapt,
because we are survivors,
so we know how to survive.
If we know how to do nothing
else, we know how to survive.
And I think that's one of
the key ingredients as to why
we are managing to get
through it at this time.
>>NOORY: Sonia, if you
were giving a speech
before a vast audience
of men and women,
how would you start it?
What would you say to them?
>>BARRETT: In terms of what?
This time that we're in?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>BARRETT: Well, I think I
would probably focus on the fact
that change is
significant right now,
but I think how we cope with
that change and the fact
that there is a collective
change, but at the same time,
there is individual change, so
not to fear what is going on,
but to understand that
throughout human history,
there has always been
transitions and changes that
happen.
That's how we
evolve as a species.
That's how we continue
to expand and to explore.
So look at this from
the standpoint of,
what can I do personally
with this change in my life?
How can I convert it
to an opportunity?
>>NOORY: When we talk about
customizing reality, what
do we mean by that?
>>BARRETT: Well, when
you look at the way
that we are as human beings,
what I noticed a long time ago,
when I started out on
this quest of curiosity,
gradually, I started to
think, are we customized?
And by that, I mean, is
everything sort of structured?
Is there just a series of
protocols that we're living by?
Is there just a series
of ideas and concepts
that have become
our reality that
have shaped the way that
we perceive reality?
And my conclusion
is that I think so.
I think that we are
customized to a great degree,
I think more than we
even want to realize,
because it's so deeply embedded.
A lot of the things and concepts
and ideas that form who we are,
they're so deeply
embedded generation
to generation that it's
hard to notice that,
well, perhaps we are just
not as authentic individually
as we might think.
>>NOORY: Do we control
our own reality,
or does something else
control that for us?
>>BARRETT: And that is--
that can be a very
tricky question, too,
because yes, I do believe that
we do control our reality.
However, we are going
to function according
to the data, the
information that we've
been exposed to, the
conditioning that we have,
the programming that we have.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BARRETT: Everything that
has been embedded in us
is what's shaping us, so we are
making choices and decisions
from that core place.
So yes, you are
controlling your reality,
but what is the root
of what you believe?
What is the root?
Where is the actual
foundation, and what
is that data that is
at the core of what
forms you as a human being?
So it's a big
question, but I think
it's one that should
really be explored.
>>NOORY: That ties right
into a Gaia program
called "Down the
Quantum Rabbit Hole,"
where Dr. Daniel Monti
and Dean Radin discuss
that version of reality.
>>DANIEL MONTI: Back
in the 17th century,
we came out of a period of
time, where we saw the universe
as this living,
vibrant entity to that
of the world as a machine.
And with that,
scientists came along,
such as Descartes
and Newton, which
solidified that concept, because
they were describing science
and mathematics of a non-living
world, of inanimate objects,
and did some very
beautiful calculations
and enhanced our understanding
of non-living systems.
Descartes really looked
at the world as a machine.
He was very
interested in clocks.
The problem is they
applied this model
of a clock or a wind-up toy
soldier to living systems,
as if we understood the parts,
the different components
of the system well enough,
we would understand how
the system works as in a clock.
>>DEAN RADIN: The key
underlying assumptions
that most scientists
still work under
is that we live in a
clockwork universe.
We live in a
mechanistic universe
that is conceived of
as gears and knobs
sort of linking together.
That is going to change, because
we know that that is not true.
We know from a physics point
of view, it's not true.
The impact of that change
is still somewhat difficult
to guess, but one
of the areas that I
know it's going to
make a big impact
is in how we understand the
nature of human experience,
because human experience, in a
clockwork world, doesn't fit.
And that's why, in mainstream
psychology, for many years,
the very idea of an
internal experience
was considered to be laughable.
There was no
internal experience.
It was explained away, and the
reason it was explained away
is because of this idea of
living in a clockwork world.
>>NOORY: I tend to
agree with Dean Radin.
What do you think, Sonia?
Do you agree with him?
>>BARRETT: Well,
yes, to some degree.
I think that much of what
we're dealing with in terms
of reality is completely
time-based in terms
of our interpretation of time,
in terms of our understanding,
I think, of what time is.
And I think at the
same time, it's
also relative in terms
of the individual.
But I think that we do
live in a reality, where
there is more fluidity, I
think, than is realized.
Again, we are dealing
with our exposure
to different kinds
of influences.
That's affecting the way that
we are experiencing reality.
No matter which
way we go, we have
to recognize that we are
being influenced, in the end,
by each other and
by our understanding
and by what we see.
Ultimately, I think
that's what it is.
And I think the
need to break out
of that is where my
position is, is to break out
of this construct, this narrow
version and interpretation
of reality, and recognize
that we really aren't living
by the sort of singular
interpretation,
and you dare not step
outside of that model.
Well, I dare to step
outside of that model,
because I think we
need to understand more
about this idea of time.
Life is a science, and I
think it wants to be hacked.
It wants to be interpreted.
It wants for us to understand.
>>NOORY: What fascinates
me about this, too,
is talking about the grand
design of all of this
and how it was designed.
I mean, does that perplex you?
>>BARRETT: When you say, does it
perplex me, do you mean am I--
>>NOORY: Like the creation,
how it all happened.
>>BARRETT: Well, I think that's
what everybody is still trying
to come to an agreement on--
exactly how did it happen?
Will we figure out
specifically how it happened?
Because what did they say--
past, present, and future,
everything is happening
all at the same time.
Are we coming into
existence at the same time
that we are actually existing?
I think there's so many
interesting perceptions
that we can have, look
at about exactly what's
going on in terms of reality
and in terms of our effect
on all of it.
You know, where do
we go from here?
We have to really break through
the cycle, the old cycle
of perception-- of our
perception, which is, I think,
a very limiting one.
Even when we are curious or
we believe that we are even
super aware, for myself, I
really started to notice, well,
just how authentic are you?
You know, how do you know
that you like the color blue?
Because you like it.
I think we just have to go back
to really recognizing that.
How the universe was designed--
that's-- I mean, well,
it's not just the universe,
but its creation in general.
How was that designed?
I think until we can
step out of this box
of human understanding,
everything
that we interpret
is going to be based
on our narrow human
interpretation
from mathematics on.
>>NOORY: What might we
discover about ourselves?
>>BARRETT: Well, I think one
of the things we will discover
is that, for me, I recognize
that the body actually
plays a much larger
role than we give it.
This is fascinating technology.
The entire construct of creation
is fascinating technology.
It's just a technology,
as I said before--
>>NOORY: It's brilliant.
It's brilliant technology.
>>BARRETT: It's brilliant.
It's beyond our minuscule
interpretation of technology,
because what?
We can only make comparisons
according to our perception
of what technology is.
But on a vast level,
the body is something
that has not been understood.
We haven't hacked it yet.
We haven't accessed it yet.
We haven't turned it on yet.
I think that that
play-- this plays
a huge role in the
bigger picture of what
we're trying to understand.
I mean, we could go
into all kinds of levels
with, well, what is the body?
The body's its own,
really, intelligence,
so we've got different
levels of intelligence
by which we're operating.
And the body is, on its own,
almost a separate intelligence
to some degree,
designed that way
because it's good at surviving.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>BARRETT: It's designed to--
like a system, like a system,
like a computer system.
It's designed to stay
alive at all costs.
It's designed to be able
to keep this organism going
so that that which occupies
the organism occupies the body,
can continue to have
the experience here
in this particular
version of reality.
>>NOORY: They're
beginning to say, Sonia,
that the heart literally is
another brain within the body.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: It's amazing.
>>NOORY: It creates emotion,
so a loved one dies.
You get very depressed.
Maybe you would die.
And they say that the heart
really has a brain to itself.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
And I think that we're going
to find out even more about not
just the heart, but all the
other organs, but absolutely.
When you look at
the heart, which
is supposed to be the greatest
generator in the body,
like a natural
generator, now you've
got all the frequencies
being processed
through the heart, all
the emotions, which
are electrochemical impulses.
You've got all these
frequencies that are being
processed through the heart.
Now, when you say somebody
can die of a broken heart,
you can really understand how
the frequency of sadness--
>>NOORY: It makes sense.
>>BARRETT: --can
affect the heart.
Well, the heart also
sends that message
to the rest of the body.
It sends that message
to our very DNA
that it's all data
that's being moved about.
We are just streams of data.
So the heart is processing data
interpreted as frequencies.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>BARRETT: So I think
it's fascinating
that we have the
gut, but brain, so we
have all these
different aspects of us
that, when we can
unlock that information,
we're going to be a
lot more powerful.
And I think that it
will change the way we
respond and react emotionally.
That's going to make
a huge difference,
because right now,
we are consumed,
and our bodies are affected
in a drastic manner
by the way emotions
are processed
and the data that is being
processed in our emotions.
That is definitely
affecting the body
through health and
so many other ways.
The heart is.
>>NOORY: How did how did you
get to this point of knowledge?
>>BARRETT: For me,
again, curiosity.
I've always been curious.
>>NOORY: Trial and error?
>>BARRETT: That's every day.
That's every day.
But as a child, I think
some people are born--
they come into this
life with a curiosity.
I, for sure, came in with a
curiosity that was definitely--
some of it was definitely a
lot different than most people,
because I questioned death.
Well, most people
don't question death,
not in the manner
in which I have.
I've questioned that.
So over the years, over
time, in the early '90s,
I'd say around '92, after
going through a divorce,
I think that was my
moment of saying,
I need to understand more
about this game called life.
What is this thing that I'm
involved in, and who is me?
Who is I?
What am I referring to?
So there was a lot of
questions that came up for me.
And on my own, I set
out to discover this.
And as you know, I didn't
know how to meditate.
So I started from scratch.
There were no workshops.
I didn't know anything about
anything-- metaphysics,
nothing, quantum physics,
absolutely nothing.
So I started from
scratch in my own quest
and stayed very committed
to this discovery
as I unlocked myself
and as I realized
I could access these different
levels of information.
That's what started to happen.
And it was like a
child in a candy store.
And I started to go
deeper and deeper into it.
>>NOORY: And you evolved.
>>BARRETT: And I-- and
I continue to do that.
And so that's how I go
back to the idea of time
and what that really
means for us and the body.
And it goes back to my very
earlier question as a child--
well, if I question
the idea of death,
it would mean that I'd
have to eventually question
the idea of time.
So gradually, all these pieces
started to just show up for me.
And I started to
get a better picture
as to what we didn't
understand and also the fact
that maybe we are all
living under a program,
a birth to death program
that's simply just that--
a birth to death program.
Is there something outside
of that, beyond that?
And that's what I
started to question.
I started to see that, ah,
you're living under the ceiling
of commonality, of
common acceptance,
common protocols of what
reality can be and cannot be.
And I think that's
really important for us
to recognize that we
are living according
to what we're told is acceptable
to process and what is not.
So then, everybody conforms to
these ideas about what reality
can be and cannot be.
Even in our
expansiveness sometimes,
we are still locked
in this system,
this construct of limitations.
>>NOORY: Precisely.
>>BARRETT: That's
what I discovered.
And so I have done
everything to continue
to move beyond that--
not good or bad, better
or worse-- that's
what I discovered--
but where you are when you
understand what you understand,
that's where you are.
It's not good or
bad, but can you
continue to build
on that awareness
without limiting yourself
to what's comfortable?
And I decided I
didn't want to be
comfortable with
my understanding.
I needed to hack the
bigger construct.
So here I am.
>>NOORY: Let's tap into "Down
the Quantum Rabbit Hole" again,
where Lynne McTaggart
talks about humanity
and how it views itself.
>>LYNNE MCTAGGART: Science
creates the stories
that we live by, and science
has told us a very bleak story.
It's told us that we're some
sort of genetic mistake,
that we have genes
that use us, basically,
to move on to the
next generation,
and we randomly mutate.
It said that we are
outside of our universe,
that we're alone,
that we are separate,
and that we are this
sort of lonely mistake
on a lonely planet
in a lonely universe.
And that informs our
view of the world.
It informs our
view of ourselves.
And we're now realizing
that this view,
this view of separateness is one
of the most destructive things.
It's the thing that creates
all the problems in the world.
[MUSIC PLAYING] It's
time to get wise.
>>MCTAGGART: And we're now
realizing that that paradigm is
wrong, that we aren't separate.
We are all one.
We're all together.
At the very northernmost element
of our being, we are connected.
And so we're trying to
understand and absorb,
what are the
implications of that?
What does this really
mean to me and my life?
>>NOORY: Sonia, do you agree
with Lynne McTaggart there?
>>BARRETT: I do agree with her.
But one of the things that
I like to point out always
is that where we are when it
comes to science, where we are,
whether as individuals
or as scientists,
are we right or
wrong in that moment?
I think that that is just where
we are in our understanding.
And so the question
then is, can you
keep pushing beyond
what we know now?
Because what we
know at this time,
in 20 years, or maybe
even next week--
>>NOORY: Could change.
>>BARRETT: --could change.
And this is why
science is constantly
refiguring and discovering,
because we will never--
there will never be a bottom
of discovery, like an ultimate.
I-- well, I'd say that is one
of the things that I realized.
And that freed me,
because I didn't
have to try to get reality
to be stuck in a construct.
But realize that reality
is showing itself to me,
or maybe I am seeing
it according to where
I am in my understanding.
Now, if I free myself and
I allow myself to see more
beyond that, then I
will always continue
to see a next level,
a next version,
a next new understanding.
But if you lock yourself into--
and some scientists have
done that, where they say,
absolutely not.
This is the way it is--
then that's where
you are, until you're
ready to change that construct.
Now, in a way,
sadly, human beings--
not all human beings, but I
think humans in general look
to scientists to
give them permission
for what it is OK to
understand and to perceive--
>>NOORY: Right, or guidance.
>>BARRETT: --reality.
Exactly.
So we tend to do that.
And so it sort of brings us
into that sort of hive space,
even though, yes, we are
one, but individually,
our responsibility is to bring
a uniqueness to this oneness
that we are.
That's why that which is which
cannot be defined shows itself
as individuals, as everything
that we see around us in order
to have the unique experiences
that come from each thing,
each plant life, each
star, each everything.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BARRETT: And so I don't
see things as we were wrong,
and that's not-- we were wrong.
I think that that's just
where we were in that moment.
But the individual
has an opportunity
to always go beyond what
science has discovered.
I do not believe in waiting for
science to give me permission
to understand, because most
of the time, what I realize
is what maybe I discovered, then
here comes science saying that.
And it's been like
that for ages.
Through all the ages
with different stages,
with-- it's always
been that way.
So I think we are
in a moment in time,
where humanity has the choice.
They've always had the choice,
but I think this moment in time
is saying, you have an
opportunity to step it up.
I think that the
bigger picture wants--
is ready for humans, then,
to go into a different level
of evolution, like
nature continues
to branch out, like a tree
constantly branching out.
And here we are.
So regardless of
what may be going
on the political front
and all of the insanity,
they're playing their roles.
But at the same time,
it can be an opportunity
that drives the individual to
go deeper into self-discovery.
And so I like to
look at it that way.
We are being forced to wake up
and to discover more deeply,
or we can stay on what I
like to call the default
evolution, which means
that, sure, you can
stay on the treadmill and wait
for a default kind of evolving,
or as an individual, I
can say, you know what?
I am so ready to discover more.
Not everybody is
here to do that.
So, again, it's not a
right or wrong thing.
I think we're all here as free
agents on different missions
in this life in terms
of what we discover
and what we experience.
>>NOORY: Sonia, what does the
collective consciousness mean
to you?
>>BARRETT: When I think
collective consciousness,
I think that, just
overall, all the beings
and all humans that
are here, if we're
talking on just a human level,
all humans that are here,
I think, collectively, we
have certain understandings,
certain beliefs, certain things
that we collectively agree on
that form our reality.
So I think there are these
collective agreements, rather,
that we use to form
our world, which
is how we are able to
relate to each other,
to have connections with
each other, relationships
with each other, because
there are these common views
and common perceptions.
However, there are aspects
that are going to be different.
But what a human
being looks like--
we kind of agree on
these certain things--
you know, what a
tree looks like,
what a chair-- there's
certain things that
are just a core part of
collective consciousness.
Now, collective
consciousness may also
have an agreement
or an attachment
to, again, a standard
birth to death program.
But here, I'm going to throw
this in real quickly, because I
have to throw this in.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>BARRETT: All right,
so we like to think
that the whole world,
like all human beings
are basically the same in the
sense of the birth to death
process.
But I started looking at
it, and I think, well, I
don't know all human beings.
I don't know who is here.
I don't know the many
versions of reality
that are existing
right here, right
now, with human beings that
are operating, perhaps,
in maybe a more elevated
space of thinking
than the birth to death
program that we all
seem to be attached to.
So I started to look at that.
I thought, you know,
well, I don't know that.
I'm being told that
everybody lives
this way or everybody
thinks this way or the media
presents this to me or religion
presents these same concepts.
But what if that's not so?
So collective
consciousness is precisely,
in my interpretation,
what I've described.
But at the same
time, I think there
are other aspects
of human beings
that are very much
here that may be
living beyond what this base--
these base concepts that
we seem to be experiencing.
>>NOORY: Do we, as human beings,
understand our own limitations?
>>BARRETT: Do we understand
our own limitations?
I think that we set
limitations on ourselves
based on, again,
what we're told, what
we're conditioned to believe.
But at the same
time, I don't know
that the majority
recognizes that there really
are no limitations.
I think that's the big question.
There really are no
real limitations.
But--
>>NOORY: There shouldn't be.
>>BARRETT: There
shouldn't be, but we are
going to respond in our boxes.
And some boxes are smaller,
and some boxes are bigger.
Either way, we're still
in these various boxes.
And so it's recognizing, what
are the boundaries that I'm
operating within?
Are these boundaries based
on external data perceptions?
You know, how did I
end up in this box?
And I think, also, know thyself
becomes a really big one.
Can you tell the truth to
yourself about where you are?
Can you be honest without
thinking that this
is a judgment or a blame?
I think until we can really
tell the truth to ourselves
about maybe the limiting world
that we express or operate
within, it's very hard for
us to move beyond that.
And I remember a couple
of times a while back,
I had said to my husband,
I said, you know,
my world feels really small.
I was doing so many things.
>>NOORY: It's condensed, right?
>>BARRETT: Yeah.
And, you know, it
was that moment
of realizing that even
though people look at Sonia
and think, gosh, you have these
outrageous concepts, which
we love.
I still kept feeling like, no,
my world needs to be bigger.
It needs to be more.
And I think when we
can come to that space
and recognize, my world is not--
my personal world, in my mind,
needs to be bigger, we
have to become outrageous
in our thinking.
When I say, "outrageous,"
outrageousness
allows us to step outside the
box, not be so comfortable,
because creation--
it wants us to discover
all potentials.
Why is that?
Because that's what
we're here to do.
We're here to
experience, express
all that can be imagined.
And yes, that's why we have
crazy things that happen,
because it's all there.
It's all a possibility.
So just as we can
experience the crazy things,
then we should be
able to move forward,
continuously move forward
into possibilities
that far exceed our little
tiny box of being born.
And then we live these tiny
lives, and then we die.
That, for me, as a child,
was very questioning.
And I'm talking--
I don't know-- maybe
four or five years old.
The whole thing was just--
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>BARRETT: --bizarre to me.
It felt like an
airport, I always say,
of arrivals and departures.
And I used to think, doesn't
anybody think this is odd?
We come in.
People come in.
Then they leave.
And then we somehow
adjust, because we adapt.
That's what we do.
We adjust.
We adjust to the pain.
We handle it.
We deal with it.
But I'm thinking,
no, no, there's
something else going on here.
So yeah, so I've spent the time
pushing the boundaries to see
that there is so much more
that wants me to see it,
because like a tree, that's
how creation branches out.
It branches because we branch.
But if we don't branch--
we can't branch if we're
not asking those questions.
If it's safe, you can't branch.
I'm here to branch.
>>NOORY: Dr. Joe Dispenza on
"Down the Quantum Rabbit Hole"
echoes exactly
what you're saying.
>>JOE DISPENZA: When the soul
emerges, when a person begins
to wake up, they weigh, they
begin to weigh what they know
and what's working
for them against what
is that inner urge
and that inner drive.
And for some people,
it's a clean cut.
They make the break.
They understand
what it is, and they
begin to gain knowledge
and apply that knowledge.
Other people have to have
their system fall apart.
They have to go through the
disruption of that ordered
and finalized complete state
of the personality that
keeps everything intact
and everything in order
based on how the person's wired.
So the tragedy, in
one sense, is really
just the death of an old self.
And it allows them a birth.
And the birthing
process, at times,
can be difficult,
because it's painful.
And what's painful about
it more than anything else
is that we no longer are
producing the same thoughts
that make the same chemicals.
We're breaking the addiction
to all those agreements
chemically.
That is an uncomfortable
state for the human being,
because they can't connect
to any person, place, thing,
or event out in their world.
And because that
discomfort gives them
a sense of no
relation to anything,
that is borderline
nervous breakdown.
It's borderline
insanity, because you
look for some
evidence in your life
that you're doing
the right thing.
And everywhere you look
for evidence in your life
is with the people you've had
all those agreements with.
So you can't even turn
and talk to those people,
because they're going to ask you
to go back to the same person
so that they can keep
that agreement intact.
If the person has the knowledge
to be able to understand that,
and they can ride their
way all the way through it,
they'll begin to understand
that a new self is emerging.
And those old patterns
will literally crumble.
They'll literally
disconnect in the brain.
And it'll give
them an opportunity
to give birth to a new self.
That new self will have a whole
new set of people in their life
equal to who they become.
>>NOORY: So in a different
way, Sonia, he agrees with you.
>>BARRETT: Oh, absolutely.
He's saying precisely
that, because the body
is a chemical factory.
And so everything is
functioning in the body based
on the emotions and
the belief systems
and all of those things,
because, again, it's all data.
It's all information that's
being moved about all day
long in the organs, in the
cells, all information.
So the question is, what
level of information
is being processed in the body?
And if your belief system
is tiny, which is fine.
If it's narrow, then that's--
your body is
processing it that way.
>>NOORY: But you'll
be that way, too.
>>BARRETT: Pardon me?
>>NOORY: If it's narrow,
you'll end up being narrow.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And so all of these
things come into play
in the sense of the life that
we live, how long we live,
our sicknesses.
It's this incredible science
that really is all up to us,
when we understand.
And yeah, change can be
very tough for anybody,
for a lot of people.
It just depends on
what that change is.
And we want to be comfortable,
because comfort is safe.
We want to feel safe, which is
why religion works so well too,
because it gives
you-- and again, this
is not a good or bad thing.
I'm just saying
the reason why we
get drawn to these constructs
is because it gives us answers.
We feel that it gives us
some answers, some security,
some sense of direction,
some sense of knowing what
could happen after
this body is released,
after this body is no more.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BARRETT: So I think that
that kind of, in a way,
becomes a setup, to some
degree, for a human being,
because what if there is
more beyond just waiting
to leave the planet?
What if there is
so much more there?
And for me, that's what
I started to discover
is how much more there is.
And I have not even
scratched the surface,
but every day, I just engage
in new levels of awareness.
And I want to say,
also, that when
you look at ancient practices,
you know, like qigong--
I'm going to say qigong--
or even meditation
like Vipassana--
>>NOORY: Tai chi.
>>BARRETT: --meditation, all
of these ancient tools were
actually discovering or--
yeah, discovering and
preparing the human
for what happens
actually in the body
and how to actually
regulate this form, which
is why the idea of moving
Qi through the body
is so significant.
So it's all a divine technology.
Do we know how to do that?
No, we don't, because we're
not taught that in school.
We are taught that
someone else is always
going to know better
for you, for your body,
so we're very disconnected
from the language of the body,
from even being in communication
with our body and our brain
and our whole construct.
But that's what those ancient
practices were really about
is getting the human to come
back, be in a centered space
to actually be present, to
be the pilot for this body,
and to regulate this
life force energy that
moves through this vessel.
Well, if we understand
that, I mean,
it's limitless as to how we
can manage our bodies and even
time.
>>NOORY: Let's talk about the
human body and its ascension.
William Henry had
a chance to talk
to me on this very
program, and he
talked about what it means
for humanity's endgame.
>>WILLIAM HENRY:
Ascension really
is a quest for wholeness.
It's the idea that we can
regain our true nature.
Many of the ascension
keepers that we'll
talk about have this belief
that our present flesh and blood
body is not our original
form or our true nature.
They believe that we were
originally light beings,
that we had an existence,
a pre-physical existence
as a light being, and that
we somehow became trapped
in our physical bodies.
And part of the
ascension process
is to learn to transcend
our physical bodies
and return to our original or
true nature as a light being.
>>NOORY: Are we moving
in that direction?
>>HENRY: We are.
There's two tracks that
we're moving along.
One is a spiritual or
an organic movement.
People around the world, by the
millions, hundreds of millions,
are practicing yoga,
doing meditation.
This is all about--
>>NOORY: That's true.
>>BARRETT: --feeding the light
body, the organic light body.
Then the second track
is transhumanism,
where your AI
developers are thinking
that we can create a
non-physical body that
lives in a simulated reality.
>>NOORY: Would you
agree with that?
>>BARRETT: I--
yeah, I agree to--
well, to a great extent.
I think that as far as the
light body, absolutely.
I think that we
are so much more.
But at the same time, I do
see that the body, once we
understand in terms of
that idea of ascension,
doesn't necessarily
involve death.
Yes, I know.
I go completely off
the rails with that.
Or do we move to a space,
to a level of understanding,
a level of awareness, where
this interface system that we
call a brain and
the entire system
is able to take the information?
Because now you're operating
on a completely different level
of consciousness, which,
obviously, is a higher level
of vibration or frequency.
Can we then literally transform
the structure of this body?
I feel that we can.
I feel that is something
that is extremely possible.
I think that's one of the
things that we are locked out
of with this program.
I think that everything
since we are--
since there's-- its
wave and particle,
that's what we're dealing with--
appearing and disappearing--
that this body can
definitely deconstruct--
is the word "deconstruct--"
or transform.
I think that it can transform.
It can be just pure
sound, which it is.
It's sound.
It's color.
It's light.
It's all of these
frequencies, then,
of the electromagnetic
spectrum and beyond that.
So I think opening ourselves
up to a much bigger picture
is a necessity to see that
we don't have to be afraid
that we can't do it.
I think that this is where we're
going into what would probably
be then considered superhuman.
I think that that's just
our natural ability.
I think those things
are just natural to us.
I think that we got locked
into this limited version
of ourselves in order to
experience the most limiting
possibilities.
And I think it's clear
that we've done that.
But I do feel that the body--
the body waits for
information and instructions
from a more evolved
consciousness
that will, at that
point, occupy this form.
I think there is no limit to the
evolution of the consciousness
that you are, that I am,
one consciousness but as
individuals, as we appear
in individual form.
I think it's all possible.
And if we say that we
are everything, see,
it becomes a contradiction,
because we say,
we are everything.
Everything is really made
up of the same substance.
Different patterns, different
mathematical formulas that
shape different constructs--
then if we are
everything, that means,
then, this body can
completely be transformed
into any space-time realm.
We're doing that already.
But we're more conscious of
this construct of reality.
We seem to be very--
we're fixed on this,
but it doesn't mean that we're
not traveling about in time.
So for me, it's a much bigger
picture about what is possible.
And I find that
extremely exciting.
>>NOORY: Thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief," Sonia.
>>BARRETT: Thank you.
>>NOORY: Humankind--
it's our nature
to try to better ourselves,
keep doing what we're doing,
and with people like Sonia
Barrett, we'll get there.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]